Hi, I'm Nitin Mishrha from Apple's
Worldwide Developer Relations team.
In this video,
you'll learn about two great technologies
you can implement to add value and
functionality to your iOS applications.
This session is designed to teach you
about the architecture and implementation
steps for adding notifications
and in app purchases to your apps.
You'll find this video
divided into two halves,
with the first half focusing on push
and local notifications and the second
half diving into in app purchases.
All throughout,
we'll highlight the critical
steps for feature implementation,
as well as cover best practices and
some common gotchas to help simplify
your implementation experience
with these two exciting features.
Let's start the day
discussing notifications,
which can include both push
notifications or local notifications.
Both of these are ways for an
application that isn't running in
the foreground to let its users
know that it has something for them.
At its core, notifications are simply a
virtual tap on the shoulder,
telling your users that your application
has some piece of data waiting for them.
That tap could be a message,
an impending calendar event,
or some new data on a remote server.
Notifications allow applications that
operate in a time-sensitive environment,
where events of interest to
users can occur at any time,
to notify those users
when these events occur,
even if the app isn't running.
To get a good idea of what
notifications can be used for,
let's take a look at some of the
apps on the store that are really
leveraging notifications in a great way.
Notifications can be used
in many different ways,
and one of those most common
uses for Push is to deliver
breaking events to users.
This can be news, sports scores,
activities in your area,
or anything of that nature.
Here we see how ESPN is using
Push notifications to keep
users aware of a sporting event,
and by acting on that notification,
users are taken right into
the game they're following.
Another use of notifications
is to keep users aware of
events that might be happening,
such as game moves, instant messages,
or social networking site updates.
In this example,
the ng-moco team has used push
notifications to let the user
know that they have a pending
move to make in a game they're
playing with some friends online.
In our last example,
we can see how notifications
can be used to remind the user
of an action they scheduled,
even if they're not in that application.
Here we see that the user
is busy playing a game,
but wanted to be reminded when their
favorite online radio show was set
to begin so they could record it.
So as you can see,
there are a number of scenarios in
which notifications can be used to
really add value to your customer's
experience with your application.
Let's take a look in more
depth at what you can do to add
notifications to your application.
To begin,
let's take a look at the different
features of notifications.
The first feature is that you can specify
which events are important to your app
and one of three types of notifications
you can associate with these events.
You can specify either a badge,
which is displayed on
your application icon,
an alert box, which can display a message
string of your choosing,
or lastly, a sound file.
When you're choosing your
types of notifications,
use badges for actionable information.
This is really helpful for users
and it's less disruptive than some
of the other notification methods.
When you want to use alerts,
only send messages
that are worth knowing.
Don't send non-essential
information or advertising.
And lastly, when you're using sounds,
you should really use a distinct
and short sound to really get
the user's attention and know
which application is calling them.
The second feature of notifications
is that they are delivered whether
your app is running or not.
So your application can be closed and
the user can be doing anything else
with the device or the device can be
turned off and those notifications
will still attempt to be delivered.
And lastly, along those lines,
is that notifications are a great
way of preserving battery life,
especially when compared to the
alternative of having your app
continuously run in the background.
With notifications,
you get all that functionality of
a background app without having
to use any additional CPU cycles,
so you're really saving
your user's battery life.
When we discuss notifications,
it's important to understand
that there are two different
notification methods your app can use.
The first method is push notifications.
Push notifications are events
that are sent from a remote server
to your application through the
Apple Push Notification service.
The content which you send in
a push notification originates
from this content server which
is outside of your application.
The other type of notification
method is local notifications.
Local notifications don't require
any server infrastructure,
as the events themselves originate
from within the application.
Let's take a look at how these two
notification methods are similar.
You'll notice that both
push notifications and local
notifications look identical.
Both can use any of the three
notification types we discussed earlier.
The second similarity between
these two notification methods
is that in both methods,
iOS will act directly
on behalf of your app,
meaning your app doesn't
need to be running for these
notifications to be delivered.
There are some differences between
the two notification methods as well.
The biggest and primary
difference between the two
is that push notifications
originate from a remote server,
whereas local notifications are
scheduled from within your app.
Push notifications, therefore,
require some sort of connectivity
in order to receive them,
and this can be either
cellular or Wi-Fi connection.
Local notifications, on the other hand,
don't require any network connectivity,
since they're going to be scheduled and
fired from within the application itself.
And lastly,
push notifications are single shot.
Once they've been sent,
that's the end of them.
You'll have to send a new push
notification if you want to
repeat some sort of information.
However, local notifications are
repeatable and schedule,
meaning they can be set up to fire at
any time interval of your choosing.
Whatever type of notification
method you choose to use,
it's helpful to understand
that in either scenario,
there are three main steps to
implementing notification technology.
The first step is that you'll
have to build your notification,
meaning you need to understand
the notification format and the
contents you want to deliver.
The second step is that you'll
need to send your notification.
In the case of push notifications,
this means you'll need to understand
how to configure your notification
server to communicate with the
Apple push notification service.
And in local notifications,
you'll need to understand how iOS
schedules and handles notifications.
Lastly, for both methods,
you'll need to understand how the
device and your app will handle these
notifications once they're received.
We'll talk through each of
these three steps for both
types of notification methods.
And to start with,
let's go with push notifications.
Below you'll see the five steps that are
required if you wish to implement push
notifications into your application.
Let's walk through these steps for
setting up your development assets,
creating your content provider,
constructing the push
notification package,
delivering your notification through
the Apple Push Notification Service,
and lastly,
handling the notification on your device.
Let's start with development preparation.
These are the prerequisite items you'll
need to complete if you want your
app to receive push notifications.
The first thing you'll want to
do when getting started with push
notifications is to go to the
iOS Developer Program Portal.
This is the same place where
you obtain your iOS code signing
certs and provisioning profiles
and add your development devices.
In the App ID section
of the Program Portal,
you'll want to enable the App ID for the
application you wish to use push with.
Remember that only App IDs that
have a specific bundle identifier
included can be used for push.
Wildcard App IDs cannot be.
Enabling your App ID for push ensures
that your bundle ID is registered
and that no other developers can send
notifications to your application.
After enabling your app ID,
you'll then create client
SSL certificates for
each of those app IDs.
These certificates will contain your
bundle identifier within them and
can be used to send notifications
only to that specific application.
You'll create two different
kinds of SSL certificates.
The first is a development SSL cert,
which allows you to connect to
the sandbox push environment.
This is great and what you'll need
for testing your application prior
to posting it to the app store.
The second cert will be
the production SSL cert,
and this will allow you to
connect your remote notification
servers to the production
Apple Push notification service.
Lastly, in the portal,
after you've enabled your app ID and
obtained your SSL certificates,
you'll need to create and
download a Push Notification
Configured Provisioning Profile.
This provisioning profile will
have a special entitlement in it,
allowing your application to receive
notifications from the service.
So now that we have all the assets we
need for building our app and connecting
it to the push notification service,
maybe we should take a step back and
look at why we need to do all this.
So in our last step,
we obtained a push notification
provisioning profile.
And we can see that it
has one of two values,
APS environment development
or APS environment production.
These are the special entitlements
which will signify to the device
which environment it will be
receiving notifications from.
By building your application with that,
your device will be ready
to receive notifications.
The second step is to take your
SSL certificates and use them to
establish a trusted connection
between your server and the
Apple Push Notification Service.
The device has its own certificate,
which you don't need to worry about,
but it allows itself to have its
own trusted connection as well.
By using these two certificates,
we now have a trusted connection
between your server and the iOS device.
This allows us to send the
notification directly to it.
Now that we have all the assets we need
for building our app and connecting
to the push notification service,
we'll need to set up
our content provider.
Your provider can run on any
operating system that supports
TCP/IP TLS connections.
You'll install the appropriate
SSL certificate on this server,
and again, you'll want to make sure the
certificate user ID matches
your application's bundle ID.
Otherwise, your notifications won't
be delivered properly.
Finally,
you'll want to make sure you have
firewall ports 2195 and 2196 open.
With poking holes in these ports,
you'll be able to send your notifications
to the push notification service,
as well as receive feedback information
from the notification service,
which we'll discuss a bit later.
So we've obtained our assets
and set up our content provider.
Our next step in the implementation
process is to actually construct
the notification package,
all the data you actually
want to send to your users.
Your notification package
consists of two objects.
The first is the device token,
and the second is the message payload.
Your payload has a maximum length
of 256 bytes and should only contain
non-sensitive and non-critical data.
Together,
these two pieces of information make
up the notification package which
you'll be sending through the service.
Let's take a look at each of
these two pieces in more detail.
The first is the device token.
The device token uniquely
identifies your device to the
Apple Push Notification service,
and it is generated by the
service for each device.
One thing it's important to
remember is that this is different
from the UDID you enter for your
device into the program portal.
The UDID is a fixed value,
which doesn't change over
the lifetime of your device.
However, your device token for the
Push service actually can
change in different scenarios.
Some of those scenarios are that
your app is restored to a new device,
or the same device is erased
and the app is reinstalled
without restoring from iTunes.
Therefore, it's important that you
call the registration API at
each application launch,
and you send this to your server every
time that your application launches.
Therefore,
you always have the latest device
token for your user's device.
Lastly, don't store this token on
the disk as it can change.
And remember,
the development device token
you receive from the sandbox
push service is different than
the production device token.
So this will help you in
your debugging techniques.
If you're encountering some errors,
you may be using the wrong device token.
The last part of your notification
package is the message payload itself.
This is the part of the notification
that contains the information you
actually want to provide to the user.
The payload format is strict JSON,
or Java Object Notation,
though you don't need to know
any JavaScript to use it.
We've chosen this format because
JSON is both human-readable and very
compact versus an XML counterpart.
It's great for Cocoa property
lists such as NSDate,
NSString, NSDictionary, and NSNumbers.
By being compact, we're able to keep the
payload overhead down,
allowing you to have more room in
your notification for the actual
message you want to display.
Along with that,
the message payload will have an
APS dictionary reserved for your sound,
badge, and alert keys.
All three of these keys are optional,
so you can choose any
type you want to use.
In this instance,
we're using all three keys: the alert,
the badge,
and the sound notification types.
And that'll look like this to the user.
The last part of the payload is
reserved for your application,
and you can put anything in it,
such as an identifier
for your notification,
as long as it follows the JSON format.
Now that we've built our
notification package,
we're ready to connect with the
Apple Push Notification service
and deliver it to the user.
To do this, we're first going to open the
connection between our content server
and the Apple Push Notification
Service environment we
want to push through.
Each environment has its own unique
address that you'll connect to,
with the development environment
having this address and the
production removing Sandbox from that.
It's important to remember that if you're
doing ad hoc or enterprise distributions,
you're actually connecting to
the production environment.
So if you have your
development certs configured,
they won't work with these ad
hoc or enterprise in-house apps.
It's important that you keep
your connection open across
all of your notifications,
instead of opening and closing it
between each notification you send.
This is because the push notification
service may see this opening and
closing as a denial of service attack.
So as good practice,
you should just open the connection once
and keep it open as long as you can.
It is important to know that the server
can close the connection on error.
And some of these errors include an
invalid payload length or token length,
or a device token and server mismatch.
So let's talk a little more about keeping
that connection open between your server
and the Apple Push Notification Service.
The Push Notification Service is designed
for high throughput and performance.
And therefore it acts
as a streaming protocol,
meaning you won't get a response
for every message you send.
By using your cert,
you'll establish that trusted
connection with the service,
and then you'll be able to send millions
and millions of messages to your users.
And because the notification service
is designed for high throughput,
you won't see a response.
However, you may send an invalid token,
which will sever the connection between
your notification server and the service.
And any notifications you have
remaining in the queue will be orphaned.
The problem is, you may not know which
notification caused that error.
So how are we able to identify
and make it easier for you to
pick up where you left off and
send those orphaned notifications?
The answer is to use the
enhanced binary interface.
The enhanced binary interface is
the protocol that you'll use to
send notifications to the service.
For those of you who may have used
the push notification service before,
you'll remember the
initial binary interface,
which included your
notification payload and length,
your device token and length,
as well as your command identifier.
With the enhanced binary interface,
we've now added the ability
for you to add a unique
identifier to your notification.
And upon error,
the Apple Push notification service
will return this identifier to you.
Additionally,
we've added the ability to add an
expiration period for a notification.
Therefore,
you won't be sending information
that may no longer be usable
or valuable to your users.
The last step you'll do to implement
this enhanced binary interface is to
update your command ID from 0 to 1.
The Apple Push Notification Service also
comes with a Feedback Service,
and this is populated when a user
removes your app from their device.
The goal for you is to avoid sending
notifications to deleted apps,
as the user won't receive them,
and it will reduce throughput
through the Notification Service.
The Feedback Service consists
of a queue of device tokens of
users who have removed your app,
and this will include the device token,
the token length, and a Unix timestamp.
In order to access the feedback service,
you should open the connection
with the Apple Push Notification
Service using the same certificates
you use to send notifications.
You'll read that information
until the connection closes,
and ideally you'll be doing
this at least once a day.
Each environment will have
its own unique connection URI,
so you can access the development
and production environments and
get the feedback for each of those.
As soon as you've read
the queue of devices,
it will be flushed from
this feedback service.
And the next time you access it,
you'll have only new data.
The last step in implementing
push notification is to handle
the notification on the device.
When you're handling notifications,
there are three different types
of situations your user can be in.
The first is that the
application isn't running.
The second is that the application
is running in the foreground,
or the application could be
running in the background.
In order to handle notifications,
your application will
have to do three things.
The first is to register
for notifications.
Then the second is to pass the device
token for the device to your server.
And lastly, you'll need to display the
notification to the user.
When you're registering
for notifications,
you'll do this at your
application launch time.
As we identified earlier,
you can choose from any
combination of the alert message,
sound types, or badge icon.
After you've defined the types of
notifications you'll want to use,
you'll tell iOS that you want to
register a given app on a specific
device with the push notification
service using the UIKit API.
To do this,
you'll call UI Application Register for
Remote Notification Types with
those three types of notifications
you want your app to receive.
Remember that just because you register
for a certain type of notification,
it doesn't mean the user
can't turn them off.
After registering, you'll implement the
registration callback.
The first is the UI application
delegate did register for remote
notifications with device token.
This method may not get called
if the network is available,
so don't consider it an error right away.
At this point,
you'll get a token back for your device,
and you'll have to choose a
method for sending this token
back to your content provider.
That method is completely up to you.
The other callback you'll implement
is the Registration Error Callback.
This is the UI application
delegate did fail to register
for remote notifications.
You'll get this callback if
your provisioning profile is
not configured with the proper
APS environment entitlement.
Or, you may be trying to run
this in the simulator,
as the iOS simulator does not support
the ability to receive notifications.
Now that you've registered
for notifications,
you'll want to decide how your
app will behave when it actually
receives the notification.
And the first scenario is that
your application isn't running
when the user receives it.
In this case,
you'll call the UI application
launch delegate,
"Did finish launching with the options."
This is going to be called when
the user taps on the action button,
or when the user unlocks the home
screen within a certain amount of
seconds of receiving that notification.
When you're using this,
you can use the launch options dictionary
in order to set context so that whenever
a user clicks on an action button,
you can take them directly to a
particular area of your application.
The second situation is that
the application is already
running in the foreground.
And in this case,
you'll implement the UI application
notification delegate did
receive remote notification.
In this case,
we're not going to send a badge
or an alert message to the app.
However, you can do some sort of subtle
action in your application itself.
Since we're not sending
an alert or a badge,
you'll want to use the user info
dictionary to subtly notify the user
of the event that has taken place.
In this case,
we're subtly notifying them of a
change in the score since they're
already in the application.
The goal here is to avoid
changing the user context.
Since they're already
in your application,
you don't want to send
them somewhere else.
One quick aside on user experience.
As with anything,
you don't want to annoy your users.
Therefore, use your alerts sparingly.
And if you're going to use sounds,
keep them short but distinct.
Ideally, you'll want to have a branded
sound file so that the user will
know what application is actually
trying to send them a notification.
And lastly, use badges when possible
for actionable items.
They are the least intrusive and the most
informative of the notification methods.
And as a point, you should always allow
your users to customize the
notifications they want to receive,
especially if you have several
different event types for which
you're sending notifications for.
So now that we've talked about
implementing push notification,
let's move on to local notifications.
And as we talked about earlier,
the biggest difference here is
that local notifications don't
require any remote server.
Therefore,
your setup is literally three steps.
Construct your notification,
deliver the notification,
and handle it on the device.
So let's move on to local notifications.
And in our first step,
let's construct the notification.
Just like remote notifications,
you can use local notifications
to set badges for your event.
After you've created an instance
of UI local notification,
you'll use UI applications
application icon badge number
property to set that badge value.
This can be any positive
integer you want.
Secondly, you can also send an alert
message or an alert string to
your user via local notification.
And to do so,
you'll want to set the alert
body and alert action properties.
In this scenario here,
we have an alert body that says
baseball game starting now.
As you can see, there's a button on it,
meaning we want there to be some action.
So we set the alert action to yes,
and we set it to go watch the game.
So in this local
notification alert message,
we've notified the user
that the game has started,
that if there's an action
for them to click on it,
and they can go right
into the app itself.
And lastly, you can use sounds as local
notifications as well.
And these can be one
of two different types.
The first is a custom sound
contained within your app bundle.
To do so,
you'll use the sound name property.
Secondly, you can use the default
notification sound.
Either of these will work,
and they'll provide your users
with the sound notification.
Now that we've constructed
our notification,
we'll want to deliver it.
And when we deliver local notifications,
we're actually scheduling them,
meaning we're setting a
time for them to go off.
It's not based on a particular event.
They're all time-based.
So we can schedule and cancel
local notifications using the
UI Application Class Method Schedule
Notification.
The matching cancel call
will allow you to get rid of
these notifications as well.
Now that we've created the notification,
we need to set what time
we want it to go off.
To set the time when your
notification will appear,
you'll use the Fire Date and
Time Zone properties.
When dealing with these properties,
it's important to keep in
mind the concept of time.
If you want to schedule a
notification for one day from now,
it's not necessarily 60 seconds
times 60 minutes times 24 hours,
as the user could change time zones.
So, instead of using this time-based
math to calculate when we
want these events to go off,
let's use NSDate components instead.
This will ensure that your users
are receiving these notifications
at the appropriate time and not
necessarily some calculated time.
Additionally,
you can use the repeat interval
and repeat calendar properties to
schedule repeating notifications.
Therefore,
this can be set up so that local
notifications can be delivered at
any NS calendar unit component,
such as every day, hour, or week.
Now that we've decided the time we
want the notification to be delivered,
we'll need to handle the
notification on the device.
And just like with push notifications,
we have our three different scenarios.
The application cannot be running,
it can be running in the foreground,
or it can be one of the special apps
that are running in the background.
When the application is not running,
we're going to handle the notifications
just like a push notification,
meaning we'll use UI applications
did finish launching with options.
And again, we'll have our launch options,
and our only difference here will be the
launch options local notification key.
When the application is
running in the foreground,
iOS is not going to set
any alerts or badges.
Therefore,
it's up to you to use the User Info
Dictionary to set the context
for the user so that they can
subtly be notified of the event.
And lastly,
you could be one of those special apps
which are running in the background,
such as a voice over IP, audio, location,
or a task completion process.
In these situations,
you'll use the Present Local Notification
Now to deliver the notification
as soon as that background
event has been completed.
So now that we've talked
through notifications,
let's review some of the best
practices we've covered for both
push and local notifications.
The first is don't overwhelm
your users with notifications.
Send them sparingly and only with
information they need to know.
Secondly, allow users to determine the
notification events they want to receive.
Give them the ability to customize
which events are important to them,
and they're more likely to stay
engaged with your application.
Third, make sure to send the device
token to your server on each
of your application launches.
This will ensure that you always
have the latest device token
that your users are using.
Fourth, make sure to keep the connection
open between your remote notification
server and the Apple Push Notification
Service between notifications.
And lastly,
remember to access the feedback
service at least once a day to
avoid sending notifications to users
who are no longer using your app.
Now let's move on to the second half of
our session and cover in app purchase.
We'll talk about the architecture
and implementation steps
you'll need to understand
to share an easy implementation.
In app purchase is a powerful new
feature that allows you to embed a
store directly within your application
utilizing iOS's store kit framework.
To begin, let's look at some examples of
some developers who are doing some
great things with in app purchase.
It can be used to access pro
features within your application.
Here we have a popular camera app,
and they're using in app purchase
to offer different lenses to really
expand the variety of pictures
you can take with the application.
And they've created a
beautiful storefront,
which you can see is really
compelling for the users.
Another example of how in app purchase
can be used is as in game currency.
Here we have We Rule,
and they use in app purchase to
offer in game currency to allow
users to build their farms faster
and grow their crops faster.
Another example of how in app
purchase can be used is to unlock
services within the application.
Here we have a popular
GPS navigation app.
However, the developers have offered an
additional service via in app purchase,
which is voice guidance.
So upon making the purchase,
you're now going to get voice navigation
instead of having to look at your device.
Proceed to the highlighted route.
In App Purchas can also be
used to offer new content.
This is very popular in magazines
and newspaper applications and allows
users to buy the latest edition as
they come out within the application.
And just launched,
we now have Auto Renewing
Content via In App Purchas.
This allows you to set a time
duration for a subscription,
so users can subscribe once and
receive updates to your application
until that In App Purchas is consumed.
Thank you.
To begin, let's talk about some of the
features of in app purchase.
And the first is that it uses
the built-in framework store kit.
This is the payment
collection engine for iOS.
The second great feature of in
app purchase is for the developer.
There are several benefits for you.
The first being that the app store
collects the payment for you.
You don't need to set up any sort
of credit card processing system.
You'll use the same infrastructure
you use for your app purchases.
And secondly,
you'll receive the same great localized
pricing and product details that you
do with your regular applications.
And lastly,
you get the same great reporting in iOS.
iTunes Connect as you do
for your applications.
There are several
customer benefits as well.
The first is that they're greeted
with a familiar purchase experience.
They're using the same Apple ID and
password they use to buy everything
else they do from the iTunes Store.
So therefore,
they don't need to enter any
payment information such as a
credit card or billing address.
And lastly, they'll still get the same
App Store receipt provided via email,
so they don't have to receive
anything from different vendors.
Just like with notifications,
there's three primary steps
to implementing in app
purchase in your applications.
The first is to define your products.
Secondly, you'll sell those products.
And lastly, restore those products
on new devices for users.
In order to implement in app purchase,
we're going to walk
through these five steps.
Determining product offerings,
setting up those products
in iTunes Connect,
selling the products with
the store kit framework,
verifying the product receipts,
and lastly, restoring previous purchases.
So first,
let's determine our product offerings.
When we determine product offerings,
we need to figure out what
we can and cannot sell within
the application itself.
For example,
if we have a fitness application,
we could sell videos of
different lessons and workouts.
However, we couldn't sell a membership
to a gym down the street
from within our application.
Similarly, we could sell a digital book,
such as the Odyssey.
However, our application cannot sell the
hard copy of that book itself.
So, when you're thinking of the
products you want to offer,
remember that they have to
be purchased and delivered
within the application itself.
When we talk about in app purchase,
there are four product types
that you can choose from.
The first is non-consumables.
These are items that are purchased
once and available forever.
Second, we have our consumable items.
These are purchased each
time they are consumed,
such as our in-game currency.
Our third product type is Subscriptions.
These are purchased each
time the product expires,
such as our magazine each
edition buying a new one.
And lastly, we have our new
Auto Renewable Subscriptions.
These are purchased at the end
of each product duration period.
After we've determined the
products we want to sell,
we need to set them up in
iTunes Connect for sale.
And when we're in iTunes Connect,
the first step you'll need is to
make sure that you have a paid
applications contract in effect.
Even if your initial application is free,
if you want to sell items from within it,
you're going to need
a paid apps contract.
After verifying that
contract is in effect,
you'll need to create your products
list in the In App Purchases
module within iTunes Connect.
When you're setting up your product list,
you'll provide each of those
products with a unique name,
a description, a price tier,
and a unique product ID.
It's important to remember that this
product ID must be unique across
all of your applications and items.
So even if you're selling
something similar within
application A and application B,
it needs to be a separate product
ID for each of those sales.
Here we have an example of a developer
who is trying to sell additional
game levels within their application.
They provided the necessary metadata,
and now they'll ingest those into
iTunes Connect for consumption.
Once you've created that product
list within iTunes Connect,
you can now create a test user within
iTunes Connect as well to test these
purchases in the Sandbox environment.
It's important to remember
this is not your Apple ID that
you use to make purchases.
This should be completely separate.
And additionally,
because each of these test users
is tied to a specific store,
you should create a separate
user per country which you
wish to sell your items in.
And lastly, as good practice,
make sure to sign out of your
store settings on your iOS device,
especially when using the Sandbox.
In order to do that,
you'll navigate to the settings and sign
out of any account you're in entirely.
You don't want to enter your in app test
user details into the store settings.
Now that we've set up our
products in iTunes Connect,
we're ready to sell these products
using the Store Kit framework.
The first thing we'll need to do to
sell our products with StoreKit is
to validate in app purchase access.
We need to do this because installing
purchased items can be prevented
via parental controls in iOS.
Therefore,
we'll call the PaymentQueueClass method
CanMakePayments.
If we get back a value of yes,
that means in app purchases
are accessible and the
user can make a purchase.
Once we've determined that
they can make that purchase,
we'll want to determine the sellable
products we can offer to them.
And to do so,
we'll first load our potential
product IDs from our app or server.
And we'll take that potential
product ID list and check it
with StoreKit to determine the
sellable subset of those IDs.
And the sellable subset are those items
that are entered into iTunes Connect and
that have been cleared through AppReview.
StoreKit will give us
back one of two responses,
either invalid product
identifiers or products.
We'll want to build our store
display from only those sellable
products in the response.products.
This means that iTunes
Connect has validated that
these products can be sold.
After you've determined that
sellable subset of your products,
you can display your store.
And this is completely up to you.
You can define how your
store looks and feels.
And all you need to do is include those
response.products in your storefront.
And additionally,
since you've already entered
all of this localized
information into iTunes Connect,
you can display products and
pricing in the language and currency
that users are used to seeing.
And the price is always based
on the user's iTunes store
they're purchasing from.
Now that we've built our
storefront and the user has decided
they want to make a purchase,
we'll request payment.
And to do so,
we'll use the SKPayment class to
request that payment by first creating
a payment object and then adding
that payment object to a queue.
And lastly, we'll observe that payment
queue to know when the payment
object has changed states.
When the user is making a purchase,
they'll be presented with several
different checkout process dialogues.
These are going to be the same as
they receive for app purchases.
They'll first be asked to
enter their account password.
Next, they'll receive a purchase
confirmation dialogue,
and this will show the product and price
of the item which they're purchasing
in their localized string and currency.
If the item has already been purchased,
they'll receive the
Previous Purchase dialog.
And lastly, when the payment has been
successfully processed,
they'll receive a Thank You dialog.
One important note is that when you're
testing in app purchases in the Sandbox,
all of these dialogs will have
the environment listed on it.
So this will help in your
debugging so that you can know
exactly which environment you're
trying to make purchases from.
Now that the customer has
made a payment for our item,
we'll need to complete the transaction.
And to do so, we'll call the updated
transactions method.
We'll get back a transaction state
which will determine whether or not
the transaction has been completed.
If we get back a state
of purchased or restored,
that means it was successful and we're
ready to unlock the product for the user.
After you've unlocked that product,
you'll want to call Finish Transaction
to complete the payment.
After finishing the transaction,
you'll want to remember the
product purchase and store those
purchased items for the user.
And you can do this in one of two ways.
You can use an NSUserDefaults class to
write a preferences file and save these
to some application support directory.
Or you can use the Keychain APIs and
save these purchases to a secure
Keychain slice owned by the application.
You can use either of these methods
to remember these product purchases.
Now that we've sold our
products with StoreKit,
we can verify the product receipts.
In order to verify product purchases,
we'll need two items.
The first is a server that you operate,
and secondly, we'll need the iTunes
Receipt Validation Service.
You may already have a server up
and running to store your product
IDs or managing your user accounts,
so you can use that same server
for verifying product purchases.
This step is completely optional.
You don't need to verify product
receipts if you're not ready to.
In order to verify product purchases,
you'll first need to check
the transaction receipt.
Every purchase that you make will
contain a signed receipt within it.
What you'll need to do is
use your application to post
a Base64 encoded transaction
receipt to your remote server.
Your remote server can then
verify that transaction with
the iTunes service and pass the
response back to your application.
Once your application has
verified a successful purchase,
you can unlock the product access.
Let's talk a little bit about
how you'll post that receipt
to the App Store to verify it.
What you'll need to do is take your
server and create a JSON object with
this encoded transaction receipt.
You'll post that to
the iTunes Verification
Service at one of these URLs.
The first is the production environment,
and the second is the sandbox.
The response you'll receive back from
the iTunes Store is a JSON response.
And as long as the status
of that response is zero,
that means the receipt was verified
and that you can unlock the product.
You can also inspect the receipt
portion of that response for
additional transaction details,
such as product ID, app ID,
app bundle ID, and purchase date.
The last step in implementing
in app purchase is to
restore previous purchases.
You are required to restore subscription,
auto-renewing subscription,
and non-consumable items
across all user devices.
In order to restore previous purchases,
you'll first need to
determine the eligible items,
such as subscription,
auto-renewing subscription,
and those non-consumable items.
It's recommended that you provide
a custom UI to your users,
allowing them to restore all
the purchases across the device.
This makes it very simple
for the user and for you.
Non-consumable and auto-renewing
subscriptions can use the
StoreKit Restore API to
provide these items back.
And by using the restore
completed transactions,
all the items a user has delivered
can be restored to a new device.
All that's required is
that the customer signs in.
And once they do so,
we'll process it like
a successful payment,
and the user will receive the already
purchased checkout dialog box.
The customer will not be
charged in this instance.
If you're using subscription
product types for in app purchase,
you are required to provide your own
mechanism for restoring these items.
Let's wrap up our discussion today with
some in app purchase best practices.
The first is that the paid
applications contract is required.
Even if your application is free and
you want to sell items within it,
you're going to need a paid
applications contract in effect.
Secondly,
your product IDs that you define must be
unique across all of your applications.
Thirdly, make sure to build your product
display from sellable products only,
not your entire product offering.
Fourth, your in app purchase test user
should not be an existing iTunes ID.
You should set one up for every country
that you plan to sell your products in.
And lastly,
remember to support the restoration
of previous purchases across
all of your users' devices.
If you need more information
on any of these topics,
you can contact Bill Dudney,
the Applications Frameworks Evangelist,
or consult the following documentation.
In this session,
we've covered two great features
that you can start incorporating
into your iOS apps today.
By following the implementation steps
and best practices we've discussed,
and avoiding some of
those common gotchas,
you'll find your implementation
experience significantly simplified,
and you'll be delivering engaging
apps to your customers in no time.